---
layout: post
title: "Prelude"
date: 2018-08-14 09:00
categories: meta introduction
---

When I was a small boy my mother would often try to convince me to start maintaining a personal diary. Her premise was to get me into the habit of writing down my experiences and to improve my writing abilities by expressing myself to an inanimate object. She would talk about how I would one day revisit all my old diaries and relive my childhood memories through the writings of my younger self. At the time this idea sounded like nonsense. As a 7 or 8 year old, I wasn't about to cut down valuable playtime to do more writing outside of the homework I got. I never ended up writing in a personal diary.

Now that I think about it, the concept of a diary being a 'time-capsule' to the experiences of your past is really a neat concept. I often struggle to recall details of specific events that occurred when I was younger, such as a friend's birthday party, or a class field trip. Not to say that isn't normal – humans are innately forgetful beings. Occasionally I'll get to revisit a past experience by virtue of a song that plays on the radio. I will listen to it and remember where I was in time and place when I first heard that song, giving me a brief flashback to my past. Music seems to have this 'time-capsule' effect on me.

What goes around comes around though, and I find myself needing to preserve specific occurrences in my life so that future me can be inspired by the experiences of my past. Now more than ever. This is the primary motivation behind starting this blog. As an aspiring software engineer, with the very limited work experience that I have had in the field, I have realized that documenting and preserving important steps in the software development lifecycle is the way to go. Whether it is a uniquely cooked-up solution to a specific problem that ties into your current project, or reiterating a solution that another person had found, good documentation is imperative. It provides a solid, human readable foundation for code and allows others to refer to it and learn from it. It is also one of the ways that writers of software can help others in their field to learn and grow.

The thing about software development specifically is that it happens to be a field that is _constantly_ growing. It is evolving as you read these words. Capable people all around the world are writing excellent software and producing solutions for science, business, economics and the like. As a direct result, learning never stops in the field of work of a software developer. Not to say that this isn't true about any other field, but it seems like software has been evolving at a rate like no other. Software writers conversely strive to keep up to date with these changing technologes and business needs. Communities like Github and StackOverflow are a testament to this, not to mention the countless other communities that you can find on Reddit, Quora and Google Groups and hundreds of thousands of other programmers' blogs. This begs the question – if all these resources already exist, why are you trying to reinvent the wheel with your blog, Habib? It's very simple. Much like how our individual life experiences are not relative to another person's, the way we perceive things and the way we learn and understand things is also unique. Although the content in this blog is mostly going to be aimed at specific problems, solutions and observations in software development, my hope is that I can help people find what they are looking for here. Even if one person takes away something they think is valuable information, this blog is serving its purpose. 

I just realized that this is a post to introduce myself, and here I am rambling on. Hello, there! My name is Habib ur Rehman. Welcome to `rehmanh.io`, a programming blog. At the time this is going to be published I am about to start my final year at the University of Wisconsin – Eau Claire as a Software Engineering student. I am also currently working at my university as a Ruby on Rails Developer for small university-wide applications for very specific business needs. I like writing code, reading code that other's have written and learning about software technologies. Like I said before, I am still very new to the software development world, but this blog is all about growth. So here's to hoping you and I can grow to be our best selves. Thanks for reading. 

– rehmanh
